anchor-size() support in inset and margin property values (#37246)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_anchor_positioning/using/index.md

{{ EmbedLiveSample("Sizing elements based on anchor size", "100%", "250") }}

## Other uses of `anchor-size()`

You can also use `anchor-size()` in physical and logical inset and margin properties. The sections below explore these uses in more detail, before providing a usage example.

### Setting element position based on anchor size

You can use the [`anchor-size()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/anchor-size) function within an [inset property](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Inset_properties) value to position elements based on their anchor element's size, for example:

```css
left: anchor-size(width);
inset-inline-end: anchor-size(--myAnchor height, 100px);
```

> This doesn't position an element relative to the position of its anchor like the [`anchor()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/anchor) function or {{cssxref("position-area")}} property do (see [Positioning elements relative to their anchor](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_anchor_positioning/Using#positioning_elements_relative_to_their_anchor), above); the element won't change its position when its anchor does. Instead, the element will be positioned according to the normal rules of [`absolute`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#absolute) or [`fixed`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#absolute) positioning.

Author: I've fixed the link (good spot!) but I'd rather keep both links. Technically you are correct, but `absolute` and `fixed` are distinct values with distinct behaviors.

```css hidden
.anchor {
  font-size: 2rem;
  color: white;
  text-shadow: 1px 1px 1px black;
  background-color: hsl(240 100% 75%);
  text-align: center;
  align-content: center;
  outline: 1px solid black;
}

body {
  width: 80%;
  margin: 0 auto;
  position: relative;
}

.infobox {
  align-content: center;
  color: darkblue;
  background-color: azure;
  outline: 1px solid #ddd;
  font-size: 1rem;
  text-align: center;
}
```

```css
.anchor {
  anchor-name: --myAnchor;
  width: 100px;
  height: 100px;
  transition: 1s all;
}

.infobox {
  position-anchor: --myAnchor;
  position: absolute;
  height: 100px;
  width: 100px;
}
```

Now onto the most interesting part. Here we set the anchor's `width` to `300px` when it is hovered or focused. We then set the infobox's:

- `top` value to `anchor(top)`. This causes the top of the infobox to always stay in line with the top of the anchor.

> - `left` value to `anchor-size(width)`. This causes the left of the infobox to be positioned a distance away from the left edge of its nearest positioned ancestor (the `<body>` element, in this case) equal to the anchor element's width. This causes the infobox to always stay positioned to the right of the anchor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `left` value to `anchor-size(width)`. This causes the left of the infobox to be positioned the specified distance away from the left edge of its nearest positioned ancestor. In this case, the specified distance is equal to the anchor element's width and the nearest positioned ancestor is the `<body>` element. This causes the infobox to always stay positioned the width of the anchor distance away from the left edge of the document body, so it is always to the right of the anchor.
```

Author: Updated
